migration/ship-hats-migration-what-to-expect.md, before:

# What to Expect

We are upgrading to SHIP-HATS 2.0, which will be running on GitLab, offering a more seamless experience for Agencies to implement an end-to-end SaaS-based CI/CD solution.

<!--
**Topics**
- [Timelines](#timelines)
- [Pricing](#pricing)
- [Tools available on Portal](#tools-available-on-portal)
- [Staggered Migration](#staggered-migration)
- [Tooling Strategy](#tooling-strategy)
-->

## Timelines

| **Timeline** | **Key Milestone** | **Status** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <br>Q4' FY21 | <ul><li>SaaS CI/CD tool evaluation completed</li><li>High-level [migration approach](ship-hats-migration#migration) ready</li><li>[Training approach](ship-hats-migration#training) ready</li><li>Migration documentation launched</li></ul> | <br>**Completed**|
| <br>Q1' FY22 | <ul><li>Complete tool procurement</li></ul> | <br>**Completed** |  
| <br>Q2' FY22 | <ul><li>SHIP-HATS 2.0 Announcement</li><li>Test with pilots (by invitation only)</li><li>Launch SHIP-HATS 2.0 Training</li><li>Open Migration Booking slots</li></ul>| <br>To be started |  

?> Support for SHIP-HATS 1.0 will continue for **at least 1 year** from the roll out of SHIP-HATS 2.0 for all users. 


## Pricing
For all planning purposes, you can refer to current [Standard Pricing](https://sgdcs.sgnet.gov.sg/sites/IDA-GoSync/gdspdd-ai/ship/_layouts/15/start.aspx#/SitePages/Pricing.aspx) (can be accessed by Public Officers on the Intranet). We will announce the details on the new subscription prices by end of Q2’ FY22. We will help Agencies migrate the current subscription to SHIP-HATS 2.0 subscription model including signing of an updated Service Agreements. 

## Tools available on Portal

![SHIP-HATS Portal Tools](portal-tools-v1-v2.png)

## Staggered Migration
 
We want our users to have minimal disruptions. We will fine tune the migration steps during pilots. We will open appointment slots for migration planning in Q2 and SHIP-HATS 2.0 will be open for all from November. 

In Q3' FY22, we will be inviting Agencies to start migration. For more information on how to choose projects for migration, refer to [System for Early Migration](ship-hats-migration-annex#systems-for-early-migration) in the Annex section. 

<!--
## Tooling Strategy


[Tooling Strategy](tooling-strategy.md ':include')

-->

Commit message:

releasing migration content to avoid bottleneck in evening due to portal issues

migration/ship-hats-migration-what-to-expect.md, after:

# What to Expect

We are upgrading to SHIP-HATS 2.0, which will be running on GitLab, offering a more seamless experience for Agencies to implement an end-to-end SaaS-based CI/CD solution.

<!--
**Topics**
- [Timelines](#timelines)
- [Pricing](#pricing)
- [Tools available on Portal](#tools-available-on-portal)
- [Staggered Migration](#staggered-migration)
- [Tooling Strategy](#tooling-strategy)
-->

## Timelines


|Users|Key Dates|
|---|---|
|All new users|Onboarding from November 2022|
|Existing subscriber<br><br>**Without** Fortify SCA or Webinspect|**Migration Start date:** November 2022<br><br>**Migration End date:** 1 year from the date of GA|
|Existing subscriber<br><br> **With** Fortify SCA or Webinspect|**Migration Start date:** November 2022<br><br>**Migration End date:** 31 July 2023|

?> Support for SHIP-HATS 1.0 will continue for **at least 1 year** from the roll out of SHIP-HATS 2.0 for all users. 


<!--
| **Timeline** | **Key Milestone** | **Status** |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <br>Q4' FY21 | <ul><li>SaaS CI/CD tool evaluation completed</li><li>High-level [migration approach](ship-hats-migration#migration) ready</li><li>[Training approach](ship-hats-migration#training) ready</li><li>Migration documentation launched</li></ul> | <br>**Completed**|
| <br>Q1' FY22 | <ul><li>Complete tool procurement</li></ul> | <br>**Completed** |  
| <br>Q2' FY22 | <ul><li>SHIP-HATS 2.0 Announcement</li><li>Test with pilots (by invitation only)</li><li>Launch SHIP-HATS 2.0 Training</li><li>Open Migration Booking slots</li></ul>| <br>To be started |  

?> Support for SHIP-HATS 1.0 will continue for **at least 1 year** from the roll out of SHIP-HATS 2.0 for all users. 

-->


## Key tool decommission dates

|Current Tool|Decommission Date|Replacement Tool|
|---|---|---|
|OpenVPN|31 December 2022|TechPass/Seed|
|Fortify Webinspect (OnPrem)|31 July 2023|GitLab SAST/DAST or Fortify On Demand|
|Fortify SCA (OnPrem)|31 July 2023|GitLab SAST/DAST or Fortify On Demand|
|Digital.ai|31 May 2023|GitLab|


## Pricing
For all planning purposes, you can refer to current [Standard Pricing](https://sgdcs.sgnet.gov.sg/sites/IDA-GoSync/gdspdd-ai/ship/_layouts/15/start.aspx#/SitePages/Pricing.aspx) (can be accessed by Public Officers on the Intranet). We will announce the details on the new subscription prices by end of Q2’ FY22. We will help Agencies migrate the current subscription to SHIP-HATS 2.0 subscription model including signing of an updated Service Agreements. 

## Tools available on Portal

![SHIP-HATS Portal Tools](portal-tools-v1-v2.png)

## Staggered Migration
 
We want our users to have minimal disruptions. We will fine tune the migration steps during pilots. We will open appointment slots for migration planning in Q2 and SHIP-HATS 2.0 will be open for all from November. 

In Q3' FY22, we will be inviting Agencies to start migration. For more information on how to choose projects for migration, refer to [System for Early Migration](ship-hats-migration-annex#systems-for-early-migration) in the Annex section. 

<!--
## Tooling Strategy


[Tooling Strategy](tooling-strategy.md ':include')

-->
